{"department":"PSYC","classes":[{"title":"Introductory Psychology","number":"001","instructor":"Todd Heatherton, Bradley Duchaine, Thalia Wheatley, Howard Hughes","distrib":"SOC","description":"A course designed to serve as a general introduction to the science of human behavior. Emphasis will be placed upon the basic psychological processes of perception, learning, and motivation as they relate to personality, individual differences, social behavior, and the behavior disorders."},{"title":"Intro to Neuroscience","number":"006","instructor":"Julie Dumont","distrib":"SCI","description":"This course provides students with an introduction to the fundamental principles of neuroscience. The course will include sections on cellular and molecular neuroscience, neurophysiology, neuroanatomy, and cognitive neuroscience. Neuroscience is a broad field that is intrinsically interdisciplinary. As a consequence, the course draws on a variety of disciplines, including biochemistry, biology, physiology, pharmacology, (neuro)anatomy and psychology. The course will begin with in-depth analysis of basic functions of single nerve cells. We will then consider increasingly more complex neural circuits, which by the end of the course will lead to an analysis of the brain mechanisms that underlie complex goal-oriented behavior."},{"title":"Exp Design & Methodology","number":"010","instructor":"Alireza Soltani","distrib":"QDS","description":"This course covers the various ways in which empirical information is obtained and analyzed in psychology and neuroscience. Statistical techniques covered will include ways to describe center and spread, t-tests, linear regression, chi-square, and complex analysis of variance (ANOVA), as well as use of a common statistical program to analyze data (SPSS). This course is the preferred preparation for Psychology 11, Laboratory in Psychological Science."},{"title":"Lab in Psyc Science","number":"011","instructor":"Jeremy Manning","distrib":"SLA","description":"Have you ever wondered why people act a particular way, or why you think like you do?  If so, you’re well on your way to becoming a real live psychological scientist!  This course will train you in the ways of the modern experimental research psychologist.  During the first half of the course, we will use lectures, discussions, and guided laboratory exercises to develop the tools and the research background needed to conduct scientifically sound and ethical research.  During the second half of the course, you will design and carry out an original experimental research project as part of a small (3-4 person) team.  You’ll present your results during a poster session at the end of the term, and you’ll also write up your work in a final paper."},{"title":"Abnormal Psychology","number":"024","instructor":"William Hudenko","distrib":"SOC","description":"This course explores various types of psychopathology, with a focus on characteristics, diagnosis, etiology, and treatment. We will examine psychopathology from a variety of perspectives and will discuss current research on specific disorders. The experience of psychopathology will be illustrated using case histories and video footage to better understand the realities and challenges for those who are diagnosed."},{"title":"Learning","number":"022","instructor":"Travis Todd","distrib":"SOC","description":"Learning is a fundamental process of behavior change that is essential for survival. In this course, we will approach the study of learning primarily focusing on Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning procedures. Generally, this course focuses on the psychological principles that underlie learning, memory, and behavior."},{"title":"Cognition","number":"028","instructor":"William Kelley","distrib":"SOC","description":"An introduction to the study of thought, memory, language, and attention from the point of view of information processing.  In surveying research in cognitive psychology, substantial contact is made with related cognitive sciences, such as artificial intelligence, linguistics, neuroscience, and contemporary philosophy.  In the course of examining general principles of cognition, the following topics are discussed:  mental imagery; concepts; reasonong; discourse, monetary and courtroom decision making; eye-witness testimony; social attribution and sterotyping; language in chimpanzees; expert systems; the relationship between information processing and conscious experience; and the philosophical foundations of cognitive science.  "},{"title":"Behavioral Neuroscience","number":"045","instructor":"Ann Clark","distrib":"SCI","description":"We are complex organisms that perform complex behaviors. In this course we will explore the neurological underpinnings of behavior. Some topics we will cover include the neural control of life-sustaining behaviors such as eating and drinking. In addition, we will explore how the brain contributes to the display of other complex behaviors such as sexual behavior and responding to stress. We will use the text, primary research articles and case studies to examine the relationship between brain and behavior."},{"title":"Sleep & Sleep Disorders","number":"50.04","instructor":"Michael Sateia","distrib":"SCI","description":"This course will explore the basic biological mechanisms of sleep and circadian rhythms, including neuroanatomical and neurophysiological aspects of sleep/wake, as well as the behavioral and social aspects of normal sleep. The course will then build upon this basic understanding of normal sleep and circadian rhythm to develop an overview of major sleep and circadian rhythm disorders. The importance of sleep to adequate daytime neuropsychological functioning and the social, public policy and economic issues pertinent to sleep and circadian rhythms will be addressed. "},{"title":"Developmntl Psychopathology","number":"52.01","instructor":"Janine Scheiner","distrib":"SOC","description":"This course will provide an Introduction to childhood Psychopathology using a developmental perspective. Written materials and lectures will focus on the diagnosis, etiology and treatment of a variety of childhood problems, including autism, anxiety disorders, learning disabilities, depression, attachment disorders, conduct disorders, and neurodevelopmental disorders."},{"title":"Psychology and Business","number":"044","instructor":"Judith White","distrib":"SOC","description":"Leadership and teamwork are among the most highly prized skills in today's businesses. This course will explore the psychological underpinnings of these and other organizational behaviors, including decision-making, communication, and conflict resolution. How do we understand leadership? How do power and status affect communication in a hierarchy? How can conflict lead to creativity? We will delve into the answers with a combination of reading and discussion, in-class role-plays and exercises, and project-based learning. Our goal is to advance an understanding of why people behave the way they do in workgroups and in organizations."},{"title":"Neurosci: Mind-Body Problem","number":"51.01","instructor":"Peter Tse","distrib":"SOC","description":"Neuroscience has learned a great deal about how neurons function, and Psychologists have learned a lot about the contents and processes of the mind. But we lack a deep understanding of the bridge that must link these two sides of the \"mind-body\" problem. We do not yet fully understand (1) how information is processed, transformed and communicated by neurons, (2) how consciousness can be realized in physical neuronal activity, or (3) how mental events realized in physical brain events can be causal of subsequent mental and physical events. This course will focus on what is known about the neural code and the neural bases of consciousness, mental causation and free will and what is not yet understood. We will focus on reading original research articles and chapters from books that attempt to get at these deep and challenging conceptual and empirical issues.  A particular focus will be the relationship of attentional processing to consciousness, and its neural bases. Students will be expected to write up critiques of readings, and present on topics of common interest."},{"title":"Brain Mapping with fMRI","number":"060","instructor":"William Kelley","distrib":"TLA","description":"This course is designed to introduce students to the theoretical and practical issues involved in conducting functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments of cognitive and behaviorally-related brain activity. Participants will gain an understanding of the physiological principles underlying the fMRI signal change, as well as the considerations for experimental design. The course will include firsthand exposure to the scanning environment and data collection procedures. Participants will be provided conceptual and hands-on experience with image processing and statistical analysis. At the completion of this course, it is expected that participants will be prepared to critique, design, and conduct fMRI studies; appreciate limitations and potentials of current fMRI methods and techniques; and better understand the broad range of expertise required in an fMRI research program. The course is designed to provide the participant with intensive, hands-on instruction. As a result, enrollment in the course will be limited to 15 students. Knowledge of MR physics, signal processing, or the UNIX/Linux operating system is not a prerequisite."},{"title":"Neurobio Social Interaction","number":"53.11","instructor":"Laurel Symes","distrib":"SCI","description":"Because animals evolved from a common ancestor, they share not only features of their external morphology, but also aspects of their neurobiology. This course focuses specifically on the neurobiology of social interactions. It takes a comparative approach to assess when neural systems are conserved and when neural systems have converged in function in response to similar selective pressures. The course will be organized into modules that address five topic areas: mate choice, parental care, territoriality/aggression, communication/language, and group living. Examples will be drawn from case studies including song learning in birds, communication in bees, and perception of emotion in humans."},{"title":"Consumer Neuroscience","number":"54.05","instructor":"Kimberly Clark","distrib":"SOC","description":"How do measures of the brain and body map onto a brand marketer’s return on a research investment? This course focuses on the history and topics related to the nascent, yet burgeoning, cross-disciplinary field of consumer neuroscience and new technological advances in marketing related to neuromarketing. The course will provide a unique vantage on the multiple academic and applied histories of the field, its ethical ramifications, along with general perspectives focusing on current practices and potential future directions, including the implications of predicting mass consumer behavior from small test samples. Students will have the opportunity to engage with some of the most notable academic and practitioners in the field and will participate in a capstone project of original research applying theory and utilizing psycho physiological tools applied in real-world neuromarketing research. "}]}