{"department":"ECON","classes":[{"title":"The Price System","number":"001","instructor":"C Frank Zarnowski","distrib":"SOC","description":"Emphasis will be placed on problems and policies of current interest as they relate to resource use and the distribution of income and output. Students will receive an introduction to the theory of supply and demand in both product and factor markets in order to examine selected topics drawn from such areas as industrial organization and antitrust policy, labor economics, international trade, economic development, agriculture, urban problems, poverty and discrimination, public sector economics, and environmental problems."},{"title":"Microeconomics","number":"021","instructor":" ","distrib":"SOC","description":"This course is a study of the pricing and allocation process in the private economy. Topics include the theories of demand and production, and the determination of prices and quantities for commodities and factors of production in competitive and noncompetitive markets. Applications of the theory and its implications for empirical analysis are also considered."},{"title":"Macroeconomics","number":"022","instructor":"Andrew Levin","distrib":"SOC","description":"This course is concerned with the behavior of the economy as a whole, particularly fluctuations in economic activity. General equilibrium models are developed to analyze the determinants of GNP, unemployment, the rate of inflation, and the growth of output. The micro foundations of macro aggregates are developed, with special emphasis on the role of expectations. The analytic tools are used to evaluate monetary and fiscal policies and to understand current macroeconomic controversies."},{"title":"Adam Smith & Political Econ","number":"005","instructor":"Henry Clark","distrib":"SOC","description":"The eighteenth-century Scottish philosopher Adam Smith was one of the founders of \"political economy,\" the study of the interrelationship between society, government, and the economy. This course focuses on Smith's major ideas through his two important works, The Theory of Moral Sentiments and The Wealth of Nations, and deals with such topics as the origins and consequences of economic growth, and the role of government in a commercial society."},{"title":"Intro Statistical Methods","number":"010","instructor":"Elizabeth Cascio","distrib":"QDS","description":"This course introduces the student to the basic concepts and methods of statistics. It covers descriptive statistics and inference (estimation and hypothesis testing) for a single variable and for two variables. The probability theory required for these topics will be developed."},{"title":"Econometrics","number":"020","instructor":"Ethan Lewis","distrib":"QDS","description":"Econometrics is the statistical analysis of economic data. This course focuses on regression analysis (specification, estimation, and hypothesis testing) and problems and pitfalls in its application in economics. The course involves extensive use of the statistical program STATA and will enable students to implement their own empirical research projects in preparation for the culminating experience in the economics major."},{"title":"Development Economics","number":"024","instructor":" ","distrib":"INT or SOC","description":"This course uses economic analysis to understand contemporary issues in low-income countries. We consider why extreme poverty and hunger, child mortality, low-levels of education, gender inequality, environmental degradation, high fertility, and child labor are pervasive in the developing world. We also examine the economic consequences of globalization and infectious diseases such as malaria and HIV/AIDS. For each topic, we seek to understand the factors and constraints influencing decision-making in developing countries. We use this understanding to discuss the role of markets, civil organizations, government policy, and international institutions."},{"title":"Labor Economics","number":"027","instructor":"Patricia Anderson","distrib":"SOC","description":"This course studies the economic behavior of employers and employees as they interact in the labor market. The class will move beyond the basics of labor supply and demand to cover such topics as human capital investment, the structure and determinants of financial compensation and benefits packages, contract negotiations and arbitration. Additionally, since many of the pressing problems facing the United States are labor market issues, this course will provide a basis for better understanding of nationally-debated issues such as reforms of the welfare system, the income tax system, immigration policy, and affirmative action programs."},{"title":"Intermediaries and Markets","number":"026","instructor":"Jonathan Zinman","distrib":"SOC","description":"This course examines the nature and function of financial intermediaries (e.g., banks, mutual funds, and insurance companies) and of securities markets (e.g., the money and capital markets and the market for derivatives). It analyzes liquidity and risk management and studies the efficiency, stability, and regulation of the financial system."},{"title":"Public Economics","number":"028","instructor":"Erzo Luttmer","distrib":"SOC","description":"This course consists of the study of the public economy of the United States at the national, state, and local levels. The course is divided into the microeconomic topics of resource allocation and income distribution. The macroeconomic impact of selected tax and expenditure policies is also studied. Particular topics may include the rationale for government activity, theories of collective decision-making, cost-benefit analysis, and the efficiency and incidence of various tax structures."},{"title":"Theory of Finance","number":"036","instructor":"Lawrence Kreicher","distrib":"SOC","description":"This course studies decision making under risk and uncertainty, capital budgeting and investment decisions, portfolio theory and the valuation of risky assets, efficiency of capital markets, option pricing, and problems of asymmetric information."},{"title":"Games & Economic Behavior","number":"035","instructor":"Christopher Snyder","distrib":"SOC","description":"Game theory is the study of decisions made in strategic settings.  The course introduces equilibrium concepts solving the infinite-regress problem (A’s decision depends on B’s which depends on A’s, and so forth) in increasingly complex environments.  A wealth of social-science applications are considered ranging from business competition to terrorism as well as lighter applications to sports and games."},{"title":"The Price System","number":"001","instructor":"John Scott","distrib":"SOC","description":"Emphasis will be placed on problems and policies of current interest as they relate to resource use and the distribution of income and output. Students will receive an introduction to the theory of supply and demand in both product and factor markets in order to examine selected topics drawn from such areas as industrial organization and antitrust policy, labor economics, international trade, economic development, agriculture, urban problems, poverty and discrimination, public sector economics, and environmental problems."},{"title":"International Trade","number":"039","instructor":"Robert Staiger","distrib":"INT or SOC","description":"This course deals with the causes and consequences of international trade and factor movements. Topics covered include theories of why nations trade, the consequences of trade for economic welfare and the distribution of income, the determinants of trade patterns, the tariff and other forms of commercial policy, trade policies of selected countries, and the formation of the multinational corporation."},{"title":"ECON Immersion Experience","number":"070","instructor":"Elisabeth Curtis","distrib":" ","description":"In Economics 70, students study a specific topic in applied economics or policy on campus and then engage with that topic during a two-week immersion off campus after the end of the exam period. Specific topics and destinations for the off-campus component vary by section. Professor Curtis offers a section titled “The Transition of Poland to a Market Economy” and Professor Comin offers a section titled “China: the country, the companies and the people.” For details on how to enroll see: https://economics.dartmouth.edu/immersion-experience."}]}